---
date created: Friday, December 19th 2025, 4:32:44 pm
---
>[!info]  This is the Radiocarbon dataset associated with the paper Glykou et.al 2021 (see below for full citation.)
>It comes to us in the form of the first sheet of the file [radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx spreadsheet]([radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx](https://umeauniversity.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/SEAD72/Shared%20Documents/Task%20force%20-%20System%20analysis%20of%20radiocarbon%20data/Datasets/AFL/input-data/radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx?d=w34fa6e11a37c4afe9398f92ea68bd11c&csf=1&web=1&e=LaDqOd)) . The other notes in this folder describe the mapping of the columns of that sheet to the SEAD database.

In addition to mapping the rest of the data, it is necessary to define the dataset itself in SEAD.

--- 
# datasets
 - [ ] create and fill in a sheet called **datasets** in the [radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx spreadsheet]([radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx](https://umeauniversity.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/SEAD72/Shared%20Documents/Task%20force%20-%20System%20analysis%20of%20radiocarbon%20data/Datasets/AFL/input-data/radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx?d=w34fa6e11a37c4afe9398f92ea68bd11c&csf=1&web=1&e=LaDqOd)) with the following columns
 - **system_id** because this is a single dataset, this sheet will contain only one row, with a value of 1 in this column.
 - **[[biblio_id]]** copy this information from the **system_id** numbers of the **biblio** sheet of this spreadsheet (see the note for column **O. Source**). (*This value will be 1, because the paper that generated the data for the dataset should be the first one listed in the list of references associated with the data.*)
 - **[[data_type_id]]** Enter in this column the appropriate SEAD code for this type of data. Perhaps, type 8, which is for "Continuous" data, which is described as "*A measured quantity*".
 - **[[dataset_name]]** Give the dataset an appropriate name, in this case "Radioarbon (Glykou 2021)".
 - **[[master_set_id]]** Copy the value from the **system_id** number for the **dataset masters** sheet described below. *Note that as this is the first dataset from the collected datasets submitted together, this has the value of 1.* 
 - **[[method_id]]** enter the appropriate SEAD code for the method used in this dataset. Since this is a radiocarbon data set, perhaps it is 156 = Calibrated radiocarbon date (method unspecified), or perhaps it is 157 = Calibrated AMS radiocarbon date. *Consult with the data provider to choose appropriately, or, if needed, create a new one.*
 - **[[project_id]]** *Consult with the SEAD team to determine if a new project id needs to be created for this data set, or if this column can be left empty.*
 - **[[dataset_id]]** If this had been a dataset that was previously entered into SEAD, its official dataset_id would be entered here. However, since it has not, the system_id for this sheet will be used to create one when the data is imported.
#  dataset masters
>[!info]  A dataset comes from an institution (perhaps a specific research group, laboratory, or department). Therefore we also need a sheet to specify the source of the dataset.
- [ ]  create and fill in a sheet called **dataset masters** in the [radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx spreadsheet]([radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx](https://umeauniversity.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/SEAD72/Shared%20Documents/Task%20force%20-%20System%20analysis%20of%20radiocarbon%20data/Datasets/AFL/input-data/radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx?d=w34fa6e11a37c4afe9398f92ea68bd11c&csf=1&web=1&e=LaDqOd)) with the following columns
- **system_id** This column is filled incrementally, starting with 1 and is used during the import process to keep track of the data in this sheet, and to cross-reference its connections to the other sheets.
- **[[master_name]]** fill in name of the specific research group, laboratory, or department that provided the dataset.
- **[[master_notes]]** fill in a description or complimentary information relating to the institution that will useful for future users of this data to know.
- **[[biblio_id]]** copy this information from the **system_id** numbers of the biblio sheet of this spreadsheet (see the note for column **O. Source**). (*This value will be 1, because the paper that generated the data for the dataset should be the first one listed in the list of references associated with the data.*)
- **[[contact_id]]**  copy this information from the **system_id** numbers of the **contacts** sheet of this spreadsheet (see below). (*This value will be 1, because the paper that generated the data for the dataset should be the first one listed in the list of references associated with the data.*)
- **[[url]]** fill in a URL for the institution providing the dataset
- **[[master_set_id]]** If this research group/laboratory/department has previously contributed another dataset to SEAD look up their master_set_id and fill it in here.
# contacts
>[!info] We also need to record the contact information for the individual researcher who provided the dataset and is serving as the main point of contact for the dataset (e.g. corresponding author).
- [ ]  create and fill in a sheet called **contacts** in the [radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx spreadsheet]([radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx](https://umeauniversity.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/sites/SEAD72/Shared%20Documents/Task%20force%20-%20System%20analysis%20of%20radiocarbon%20data/Datasets/AFL/input-data/radiocarbon_Glykou_etal_2021_input.xlsx?d=w34fa6e11a37c4afe9398f92ea68bd11c&csf=1&web=1&e=LaDqOd)) with the following columns
**system_id** This column is filled incrementally, starting with 1 and is used during the import process to keep track of the data in this sheet, and to cross-reference its connections to the other sheets.
**[[contact_id]]** If this researcher previously contributed another dataset to SEAD look up their **contact_id** and fill it in here.
**[[address_1]]** fill in first line of their physical (work) address
**[[address_2]]** fill in the second line of their physical (work) address
**[[first_name]]** Fill in the researcher's first name
**[[last_name]]** Fill in the research'er last name
**[[url]]** fill in a URL for the researcher who provided the dataset (probably their profile on their university web page, or on ORCID, or other as appropriate, as if they have a preference)
**[[phone_number]]** fill in a contact phone number for the researcher
**[[email]]** fill in a contact phone email address for the researcher
**[[location_id]]** look up the SEAD **location_id** (if any) for the city in which the researher's insutution is located.


>[!example] Glykou et.al 2021:
>Glykou, A., Lõugas, L., Piliciauskiene, G., Schmölcke, U., Eriksson, G. and K. Lidén 2021. Reconstructing the ecological history of the extinct harp seal population of the Baltic Sea. Quaternary Science Reviews 251:106701. 