This vault created **2025-09-19** using data exported as **C:\Users\rich0011\OneDrive - Umeå universitet\Arkeologi\SEAD Structure\SEAD-tables.csv**  from SEAD using pgAdmin with the sql query **C:\Users\rich0011\OneDrive - Umeå universitet\Arkeologi\my sql experiments\SEAD tables and descriptions.sq** which was then processed with the file **C:\Users\rich0011\OneDrive - Umeå universitet\Arkeologi\SEAD Structure\generate_obsidian_notes.py4** using the command <span style="color:rgb(61, 26, 234)">python generate_obsidian_notes4.py </span>to separate the data into two folders (tables and columns) which were opened as this vault.

Data was then hand-sorted into folders based on the **sead_model.pdf** located in the above SEAD structure folder. Files for tables which don't appear in the sead_model.pdf file were sorted into a folder called "Untitled". 

Colours were applied to the folders using the Color Folders and Files plug in, and these colours copied to "groups" in graph view, with the results bookmarked so the work applying colours wouldn't be lost if we create another graph view later.  This readme file, and the dataview query to collect all [[ToDo]] statements were placed in a "Not plotted" folder, and the saved graph view doesn't include this folder. The date_updated column was also put into this folder, as otherwise everything links to it, making for messy graphs.

Then, to test how it will work for data mapping, the folder for the Radiocarbon data Mapping project was added on **2025-09-22**. see details in its [[Radiocarbon Data mapping/READme]] file. This folder is also in the not-plotted folder at this time.